安全组（SG: secure group）:类似于防火墙规则 
VSW: 虚拟交换机

云存储类型：
块存储 （数据盘、系统盘）
NAS 存储（文件存储）：Network Attached Storage：网络附加存储， 容量有限 ，支持NFS 协议
OSS 存储（对象存储）：程序代码接口调用 ， 支持高并发，CDN 缓存，容量无限 

RAM：访问控制
用户与用户组
用户访问方式：
 控制台访问：web 页面登录，手动操作阿里云资源
 api 调用：开发的程序代码中调用阿里云资源（access id / access secret ）

CLB:（classic load balancer） 传统负载均衡，支持四层和七层，七层仅支持对URI（location), 域名进行转发；
SLB:(Server Load Balancer) 应用负载均衡，仅支持七层，（整合nginx 的if）负载均衡各种功能，可以根据请求头响应

LVS (Linux Virtual Server):4层负载均衡  --> 处理数据转发
Tengine ：7层负载均衡，以代理的方式

如果是TCP/UDP 四层协议去流量请求，直接经过LVS 后，到达ECS；
如果是HTTP/HTTPS 七层协议流量请求，先经过LVS 转发，再到Tengine（如果需要加密的话，就再经过key server），最后到达ECS



What is Nginx ?

Nginx , it's like a gateway that stands between the internet and your back-end infrastructure. when you visit a web app. the first place your request will go is to a web server. its job is to look at the requested resource and determine where to find it on the server, then send it back as the response. In fact if you open up the network tab in chrome devtools right now, you can look at the server header on any response and there's a good chance, it'll be nginx. it's extremely popular with high traffic sites, because it can handle more than 10000 simultaneous connections with its event driven architecture. it's also commonly used as a reverse proxy where it acts as a traffic light to distribute the load to multiple backend severs while also providing security and caching for better performance. In most cases it'll be installed on a linux server with configuration file being found in the /etc/nginx/nginx.conf directory. you can customize the behavior of your server by defining directives. A directive is just a key-value pair or if followed by braces it's known as a context which itself holds more directives. In the global context we might want to specify things like a username and where to save our error logs, but most of your configuration will likely be done in the http context. Now one of the most important roles of nginx is to serve out static content like images and html. we can handle that in the http context where we'll define one or more servers. Each server is distinguished by the port that it listens to. Nginx will keep track of every request to the server which you can write to an access log. The most important thing though is to tell the server where to find the raw files which we do in the location context. Now when a user navigates to our domain, it knows where to find the html on the file system and we might want to setup a second location to match any image pattern to the images directory. Other common things you might handle in your server config include ssl certificates rewrites and routing to a proxy server. When I replace root with proxy pass, I can point to a completely different server on the internet what we've created in a reverse proxy that can handle caching anonymity and load balancing. This has been nginx in 100 seconds.
